So were you successful hooking up these buttons?
Let's do it together.
I want to start with the new recipe button
and for that, I'll go to my recipe-list component which is where I have this button here and I simply
want to add a click listener to it, onNewRecipe could be a fitting name.
So let's copy that name and add it to our TypeScript code so that here we have the method which will
get triggered
and now I need to inject the router to be able to navigate to this route
I want to go to. So I'll add my router here of type router to be imported from @angular/router here,
so I'll add this import.
And with that in onNewRecipe,
I simply want to target or use my router to use the navigate method to target this path
I want to go to. Now which path is that? We already are on /recipes here,
keep this in mind because we're on the recipe list. So I can use a relative route and simply add new to
it.
Now to be able to use a relative route in the navigate method though, we also need to inform the router
about our current route, so let's inject this too. Here the route of course, of type ActivatedRoute needs
to be added and ActivatedRoute should also be added from the @angular/router package and then I'll add
my Javascript object, add the relative to configuration and point to this route, to my current route.
With that, let's see if that works.
Back in the application, let's try this new recipe button,
that looks great.
So let's try going to just recipes, works,
select a recipe, works too,
so that is indeed working as expected.
Now we should do the same basically for the edit recipe, though there we also need to pass our ID. The
recipe-detail component is of course the place where we have this link, here the edit recipe link,
so I'll add a click listener and say onEditRecipe here.
I'll also copy this name into the TypeScript code of the edit recipe component, like this
and then here, we also need to get access to the router so that we can call the navigate method,
so let's inject it, of type router as before.
Make sure to import the router from @angular/router
and now that is why I stored the ID in this property here. With that stored,
I can now use my router here to navigate and I want to navigate basically to the current ID and
then edit.
Now I could simply add edit to the current route, so let's add
relative to here, this route
and let's see if this works as expected.
If I click edit recipe, we go to zero edit and the same for one.
So actually, we don't need the ID here in this case
then, why did I get it then?
Well, simply for demo purposes. This is an absolutely fine way and probably the way you will navigate,
the alternative though
and just to show this, how that would work and to practice this, is to use navigate
and now let's say we move up one level and then we want to add our ID again, so this ID and then edit
.
So now I'm deliberately constructing a more complex path, simply to show how that would work.
So now, that is also relative to our current route, so this route
and with that you should see that this still works because what we do is we go up one level,
so to just /recipes in this case, then we again add our ID and then edit.
And we should see that if I click this button again, even if we reload the app to be sure that it
did indeed update, it works as before,
now with a more complex set up. Again you would probably use the first one which is why I'll comment out the
second one,
I just wanted to highlight again how that works, how you can use that more complex navigation and also
navigate around with this go up one level command you see here as the first segment of this more complex
path.
However again, just adding edit to the relative or to the current route I should say is of course the straightforward
way.